All right now we're going to go ahead and create a journal button for our game.
So let's start off by coloring in our background with a grade.
So I have a gray already selected.
It's a relatively darker grade.
Go ahead and fill our background in with that.
So now we have a more neutral background.
Next what we want to do is we want to grab our shape tool and we want to grab our lips tool and they're
going to go ahead and create an ellipse and holding down shift to create a perfect circle and we'll
make it about that size next.
Let's go ahead and change the width of our stroke so we're going to come right over here and we're going
to type in the number 45.
Hit enter Let's see how that looks.
Let's make it a little bit wider.
So I'm going to put 55 and her perfect next.
Let's change the color of our stroke so we're going to come over here to this boxa has a stroke around
it.
We're going to select that and I'm going to come over here to a color picker in that corner and we need
to select a yellow color and a selected color probably some over here maybe a little bit more towards
the oranges and maybe a little bit lighter.
So some are about there should be good.
Okay great.
Next let's go ahead and create the jewel part.
So this is going to be the gold part that goes around our jewel.
Next let's create the jewel that will go in the center of our gold ring.
So I'm going to use my shape to once again starting in the middle and hold down shift and then we'll
bring it up to a about that size and then we're going to grab that and we're going to turn off the stroke
by hitting this white box.
The slash right.
And we can turn on a fill by coming into our fill box and we want to fill it with a gradient.
So let's select a gradient and we actually want to flip this around.
We want the dark part to be on top and the light part to be on the bottom.
So let's go ahead and click on this little tab right here.
Well double click and then we can drag that color up to white.
You know we'll do the same thing on the other side of double click the white over here and then we'll
put drag that down to the black.
OK.
Perfect.
Next what we want to do is we want to center this in the middle of our document so Center it right there
and then we want to grab our yellow ring and drag it above this.
And we also want to center that.
So get that to the center.
Next we're going to add some little rivets around the edges of our gold ring.
So using my circular tool I'm going to go ahead and create a small circle.
Hold down Shift keep its proportion.
So we want it a little bit smaller than the width of our of our ring.
Now we can go ahead and drag that into place to make sure it fits perfect next what we want to do is
we want to add and then Bevil to our circle.
So we're going to come down to F X and then we're going to come up to and Bevell and box and what we
want to do is we want to change where it says pillow emboss we want to change that to inner emboss.
So once we have that selected we can go ahead and change our depth to what we want.
And so you see that kind of hardens and softens the depth of the embossing.
So we're going to put it about that all are going to bring the size up to about 16 pixels and then are
going to soften that we might bring that up a little bit more on the size.
Some are about there should be good.
So another gives us a three dimensional rivet on our rim.
Now I have my highlight set to 81 percent and my opacity is set to 70 percent.
So once this is all set up correctly we can go ahead and hit OK.
Next we're going to add a drop shadow to that so we're going to come back down to our facts and come
to drop shadow.
And I'm going to bring my opacity down to about 50 percent maybe a little bit higher about 60 percent
and I'm going to have the distance and the speed is going to be brought up so has a harder edge and
then I'm going to bring the size down so it's a little bit smaller than my actual Rivett then I can
turn that speed back up because I want it to be a little bit softer.
So I'm going to turn it down actually sorry.
So turn it down to about there and then I'm going to go ahead and change the distance so it comes up
a little bit more snow out of that nice little drop shadow there.
Let's go ahead and hit.
OK.
Next what I'm going to do is I'm going to turn on my rollers by coming up to the view then coming down
to rulers.
And now I get these rulers on the sides of my document.
What I can do is I can click that roller and drag down like so and it should click right into the center
of my document and I'll do the same thing from this side and that allows me to find out where the center
of my document is next.
What I'm to do is I'm going to go ahead and grab my Rivett and I'm going to place him right here in
the center like so and then I'm going to nudge him over so he's centered with in my room.
And next we're going to go ahead and turn on our Transform Tool and this little guy right in the middle
of our transform selection.
That's the pivot point.
So we can drag that wherever we want and wherever we drop it that's where it's going to pivot from.
So if I drop it there it's going to pivot around there.
So what we want to do is we want to drag that right to the center of our document and we can tell her
that is because we pulled out these earlier lines and that tells us where it is.
So we just want to make sure we get it lined up with that just like so they're going to go ahead and
rotate this around.
But we want to make sure that we're holding down shift while we do that so we can rotate it to a perfect
45 degree angle.
Now we can hit enter next.
Let's go ahead and make a copy of this layer.
So I have control J.
And then we're going to go ahead and turn on the Transform Tool for that layer and we're going to drag
it's pivot point right to the center like we did with the other one.
And then we're going to go ahead and rotate that 90 degrees.
Now the reason why we rotated that 90 degrees was because from here to here is only 45 degrees from
there to there is 90 degrees because you have your 45 and you're 45 there.
And that's why we rotated back 90 degrees.
They're all going to be 90 degrees after this.
So let's go ahead and hit enter then we're going to make a copy of this layer and we'll turn on the
Transform Tool and drag the pivot point to the center of our document just like so and then we'll go
ahead and rotate that another 90 degrees enter.
Make a copy of that layer and then we're going to turn on the Transform Tool and grab that pivot point
and place it just like so and then go ahead and rotate that another 90 degrees and enter.
Now we're getting a little bit close to the edge over here.
So something was a little bit off.
That's all right.
We can go ahead and use our arrow keys to kind of nudge it into place because we have a general idea
of where that 45 degree angle area should be.
So I'm going to go ahead and nudge this guy down maybe twice and over twice maybe back and then come
down to this guy over here and I'm going to nudge him down twice and then over twice.
Perfect.
Now you'll notice that when we rotated these the shadows didn't rotate with it which is really nice.
They all stayed facing downwards because each one is still having the effect applied to it.
It's not an actual pasteurised image.
And so Photoshop is smart enough that they can apply that same effect in the same angle of lighting.
Next what we want to do is we want to merge all these rivet layers together.
So let's go ahead and select them all and then we're going to right click and merge shapes.
So now those are all one layer.
And now it's right click and we're going to create this into a clipping mask.
And the reason why we've done that is so that it clips off the edge of the shadows that are hanging
over the edge.
Now the last thing we want to do is we want to add a dark edge around the edge of our inner circle.
So I'm going to come down to this layer that has the gradient on it and I'm going to go ahead and turn
on an effect and the effect we're going to use is inner glow.
Now this isn't going to be a glow.
It's actually going to be a shadow.
So right now we can't see our white glow around the edge because we have our blood mode set to darken.
So it's only going to show dark colors.
So first off we want to change our right color to the color black.
OK.
And you can see that edge a lot better next.
Let's go ahead and turn down the opacity just a little bit to about 75 percent and then we're going
to turn that size up a little bit more.
You can also play with a choke a little bit.
But for the most part I think we're just going to leave that at about 6 percent.
That should be good.
And then we can go ahead and hit.
OK great.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you were able to lay out all the shapes and the shadows and highlights for your jewel
button in the next lecture.
We're going to go ahead and paint this rim to look a lot more realistic.
Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.